2. Explain various activities of E-commerce. Differentiate between E-business and E-commerce.

Ans.
E-commerce covers a wide spectrum of activities that helps in internet corporateoperations. Sales and post sales activities fall under this classification. Digital technology not only simplifies business processes in every stage but also improve customer experience. Apart from this, Marketing and advertising is also done on the internet. This includes promotion of goods and services through digital channels like email, ads, social media etc. By doing so, companies increase their brand awareness among people and might draw potential clients. Since most of the e-commerce activity is made up of internet transactions using secure payment methods like credit cards and UPI etc, customers have the convenience to go through the catalog of goods, choose goods and make payment. With the advent of E-Commerce fast and immediate financial transfers were made possible.
PayPal, PayZapp and Google Pay are some of the platforms that provided a safe and electronic payments system. Also, E-commerce helps companies to manage inventory, items packaging, their transportation and delivery. Real-time tracking informs customers about the status of their products.

NOTE - Make a table fort the differences.

E-Business                                     
1.  This refers to the use of digital         
technology for all business processes
which also includes production,
customer service and supply chain

2. E-Business has a broader range as it
also includes internal and external
business activities.

3. E-Business involves both
transactional and non-transactional
activities such as marketing,
promotion etc.

E-Commerce
1. E-commerce is a subset of E-Business
that focuses specifically on buying and
selling goods and services online.

2. E-Commerce has a narrow range as it
is only limited to commercial
transactions over electronic networks

3. E-Commerce only involves
transactional activities such as sales
and payments.

