6. What is the relevance of value proposition in a business model. Describe the stages of ESLC.

Ans.
Value proposition in a business model is a promise made by a business to its customers which explains what makes the company’s products or services worth choosing. It basically explains it to customers the gains the customers will make when they buy that specific product and how it is different or/and better than the competition. There are various features of value proposition which are -
a. Value propositions help in attracting and retaining customers by showing them the advantages of the product or service they are providing.

b. Value proposition helps a brand stand out in the crowded market by showing how their products are unique and better than their competition.

c. Value proposition builds a positive image of the brand which in turn helps in influencing the customers about how customers think about their products.

d. Value proposition helps in driving sales and revenue growth by showcasing the value a customer gets when they buy their product.

The ESLC stands for E-Commerce System Life Cycle. It involves a sequential process of a plan creation, its launching and maintaining an e-commerce platform. The steps involved are -
a. The first and important step of any business is to set the foundation of the entire process. This step includes defining the goal and identifying the target audience for the said goal. In order for it to succeed, several technical and financial studies are conducted. After this, a project plan is created while mentioning the cost estimates, the time and resources that will be required etc.

b. The primary goal of this stage is to understand the needs of the users and the organization. Data is collected to identify essential features and functions of the system. This helps in setting a clear set of requirements.

c. This stage guides the development of logical and physical design of the system. It is made sure that the system is user-friendly, secure and scalable under heavy load.

d. After the above stages are done, this stage is where the actual development takes place This involves writing codes, integrating databases and setting up convenient payment methods.

e. After the system is fully developed, it is deployed for the general public to use while also taking feedback from the users to tackle quick bugs and problems that may have arisen.

f. Once the system is fully established and running, continuous maintenance is done time-to-time along with integration of new features.
